# Force chains bias the dynamic response to impacts in rubble-pile asteroids

## Title

Force chains bias the dynamic response to impacts in rubble-pile asteroids

## Metadata

- **paper_id**: `2402.16723`
- **arXiv_abs**: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16723
- **arXiv_pdf**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.16723.pdf
- **authors**: Chenyang Huang, Yang Yu, Peter R. King, Bin Cheng, Raphael Blumenfeld
- **categories**: astro-ph.EP
- **created**: `2024-02-26T16:47:18+00:00`
- **updated**: `2024-12-31T02:23:16+00:00`
- **datestamp**: `2025-10-15`
- **doi**: `10.1093/mnras/staf1575`
- **journal_ref**: Mon Not R Astron Soc (2025) 2523-2533
- **setspecs**: physics:astro-ph:EP
- **exported_at**: `2026-01-24T01:01:20.727758+00:00`

## Abstract

The impact response of rubble-pile asteroids is essential for both elucidating their formation and evolution history and evaluating the efficacy of impact defense strategies. Although state-of-the-art numerical simulations have allowed for the replication of many macroscopic impact characteristics consistent with observations, the understanding of dynamics and response mechanisms within rubble-pile structures remains incomplete and requires further in-depth investigation. Such understanding is critical for assessing the effects and safety of impact defense missions. The loose structure of rubble-pile asteroids affects inhomogeneous internal stress propagation via inherent force chains, which may lead to structural fracturing. We demonstrate this phenomenon here, using a proof-of-principle two-dimensional model of granular aggregates. We find that the velocity response front to impact disturbances preferentially propagates along pre-existing force chains, with particles not in chains responding more slowly. The sites within the response zone where high dynamic stresses manifest are strongly correlated with these initial force chains, and the damages that result are predominantly located within areas enclosed by these chains. The strong correlation between pre-existing force chains and dynamic response is independent of the location, magnitude, direction of the disturbance velocity, or the aggregate's particle size distribution. All evidence suggests that the core reasons for this propagation preference lie in the structural heterogeneity of granular aggregates and the resulting differences in mechanical wave propagation. This investigation provides guidance for future research aimed at quantitatively assessing fragmentation risks based on the statistical properties of force chains.
