# Evolving interdisciplinary contributions to global societal challenges: A 50-year overview

## Title

Evolving interdisciplinary contributions to global societal challenges: A 50-year overview

## Metadata

- **paper_id**: `2410.20619`
- **arXiv_abs**: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.20619
- **arXiv_pdf**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.20619.pdf
- **authors**: Keisuke Okamura
- **categories**: cs.DL, cs.CY, cs.SI, physics.data-an, physics.soc-ph
- **created**: `2024-10-27T22:36:36+00:00`
- **updated**: `2025-10-19T13:04:35+00:00`
- **datestamp**: `2025-10-21`
- **doi**: `10.1016/j.wdp.2025.100728`
- **journal_ref**: World Dev. Perspect. 40 (2025) 100728
- **setspecs**: cs:cs:DL, cs:cs:CY, cs:cs:SI, physics:physics:data-an, physics:physics:soc-ph
- **exported_at**: `2026-01-24T01:01:20.732995+00:00`

## Abstract

Addressing global societal challenges necessitates insights and expertise that transcend the boundaries of individual disciplines. In recent decades, interdisciplinary collaboration has been recognised as a vital driver of innovation and effective problem-solving, with the potential to profoundly influence policy and practice worldwide. However, quantitative evidence remains limited regarding how cross-disciplinary efforts contribute to societal challenges, as well as the evolving roles and relevance of specific disciplines in addressing these issues. To fill this gap, this study examines the long-term evolution of interdisciplinary contributions to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), drawing on extensive bibliometric data from OpenAlex. By analysing publication and citation trends across 19 research fields from 1970 to 2022, we reveal how the relative presence of different disciplines in addressing particular SDGs has shifted over time. Our results also provide unique evidence of the increasing interconnection between fields since the 2000s, coinciding with the United Nations' initiative to tackle global societal challenges through interdisciplinary efforts. These insights will benefit policymakers and practitioners as they reflect on past progress and plan for future action, particularly with the SDG target deadline approaching in the next five years.
