# Review and prospects of hot exozodiacal dust research for future exo-Earth direct imaging missions

## Title

Review and prospects of hot exozodiacal dust research for future exo-Earth direct imaging missions

## Metadata

- **paper_id**: `2504.00295`
- **arXiv_abs**: https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.00295
- **arXiv_pdf**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2504.00295.pdf
- **authors**: Steve Ertel, Tim D. Pearce, John H. Debes, Virginie C. Faramaz, William C. Danchi, Ramya M. Anche, Denis Defr\`ere, Yasuhiro Hasegawa, Justin Hom, Florian Kirchschlager, Isabel Rebollido, H\'el\`ene Rousseau, Jeremy Scott, Karl Stapelfeldt, Thomas A. Stuber
- **categories**: astro-ph.EP, astro-ph.SR
- **created**: `2025-03-31T23:46:49+00:00`
- **updated**: `2025-03-31T23:46:49+00:00`
- **datestamp**: `2025-04-02`
- **doi**: `10.1088/1538-3873/adb6d5`
- **journal_ref**: 2025PASP..137c1001E
- **setspecs**: physics:astro-ph:EP, physics:astro-ph:SR
- **exported_at**: `2026-01-24T01:01:20.738539+00:00`

## Abstract

Hot exozodiacal dust is dust in the innermost regions of planetary systems, at temperatures around 1000K to 2000K, and commonly detected by near-infrared interferometry. The phenomenon is poorly understood and has received renewed attention as a potential risk to a planned future space mission to image potentially habitable exoplanets and characterize their atmospheres (exo-Earth imaging) such as the Habitable Worlds Observatory (HWO). In this article, we review the current understanding of hot exozodiacal dust and its implications for HWO. We argue that the observational evidence suggests that the phenomenon is most likely real and indeed caused by hot dust, although conclusive proof in particular of the latter statement is still missing. Furthermore, we find that there exists as of yet no single model that is able to successfully explain the presence of the dust. We find that it is plausible and not unlikely that large amounts of hot exozodiacal dust in a system will critically limit the sensitivity of exo-Earth imaging observations around that star. It is thus crucial to better understood the phenomenon in order to be able to evaluate the actual impact on such a mission, and current and near-future observational opportunities for acquiring the required data exist. At the same time, hot exozodiacal dust (and warm exozodiacal dust closer to a system's habitable zone) has the potential to provide important context for HWO observations of rocky, HZ planets, constraining the environment in which these planets exist and hence to determine why a detected planet may be capable to sustain life or not.
