# Minimal mechanism for flocking in phoretically interacting active particles

## Title

Minimal mechanism for flocking in phoretically interacting active particles

## Metadata

- **paper_id**: `2504.07050`
- **arXiv_abs**: https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07050
- **arXiv_pdf**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2504.07050.pdf
- **authors**: Arvin Gopal Subramaniam, Sagarika Adhikary, Rajesh Singh
- **categories**: cond-mat.soft, cond-mat.stat-mech
- **created**: `2025-04-09T17:09:48+00:00`
- **updated**: `2025-10-30T12:47:21+00:00`
- **datestamp**: `2025-11-04`
- **doi**: `10.1039/D5SM01005E`
- **journal_ref**: Soft Matter, 2025
- **setspecs**: physics:cond-mat:soft, physics:cond-mat:stat-mech
- **exported_at**: `2026-01-24T01:01:20.738539+00:00`

## Abstract

Coherent collective motion is a widely observed phenomenon in active matter systems. Here, we report a flocking transition mechanism in a system of chemically interacting active colloidal particles sustained purely by chemo-repulsive torques at low to medium densities. The basic requirements to maintain the global polar order are excluded volume repulsions and long-ranged repulsive torques. This mechanism requires that the time scale individual colloids move a unit length to be dominant with respect to the time they deterministically respond to chemical gradients, or equivalently, pair colloids sliding together a minimal unit length before deterministically rotating away from each other. Switching on the translational repulsive forces renders the flock a crystalline structure. Furthermore, liquid flocks are observed for a range of chemo-attractive inter-particle forces. Various properties of these two distinct flocking phases are contrasted and discussed. We complement these results with stability analysis of a hydrodynamic model, which admits the transition corresponding to destabilization of the flocking state observed in particle-based simulations.
