# Bayesian probabilistic projections of proportions with limited data: An application to subnational contraceptive method supply shares

## Title

Bayesian probabilistic projections of proportions with limited data: An application to subnational contraceptive method supply shares

## Metadata

- **paper_id**: `2510.25153`
- **arXiv_abs**: https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.25153
- **arXiv_pdf**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2510.25153.pdf
- **authors**: Hannah Comiskey, Niamh Cahill, Leontine Alkema, David Fraizer, Worapree Maneesoonthorn
- **categories**: stat.ME
- **created**: `2025-10-29T04:12:22+00:00`
- **updated**: `2025-10-29T04:12:22+00:00`
- **datestamp**: `2025-10-30`
- **setspecs**: stat:stat:ME
- **exported_at**: `2026-01-24T01:01:20.760367+00:00`

## Abstract

Engaging the private sector in contraceptive method supply is critical for creating equitable, sustainable, and accessible healthcare systems. To achieve this, it is essential to understand where women obtain their modern contraceptives. While national-level estimates provide valuable insights into overall trends in contraceptive supply, they often obscure variation within and across subnational regions. Addressing localized needs has become increasingly important as countries adopt decentralized models for family planning services. Decentralization has also underscored the need for reliable subnational estimates of key family planning indicators. The absence of regularly collected subnational data has hindered effective monitoring and decision-making. To bridge this gap, we propose a novel approach that leverages latent attributes in Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) data to produce Bayesian probabilistic projections of contraceptive method supply shares (the proportions of modern contraceptive methods supplied by public and private sectors) with limited data. Our modeling framework is built on Bayesian hierarchical models. Using penalized splines to track public and private supply shares over time, we leverage the spatial nature of the data and incorporate a correlation structure between recent supply share observations at national and subnational levels. This framework contributes to the domain of subnational estimation of proportions in data-sparse settings, outperforming comparable and previous approaches. As decentralization continues to reshape family planning services, producing reliable subnational estimates of key indicators is increasingly vital for researchers and policymakers.
